 Okay, hi everybody.
 Today we're going to continue our foiré into perception, our first explorations of perception.
 And if you remember, the goal is to -- that's what it says when it's loading.
 Let me just -- let me do it from scratch.
 How about that?
 You should know, by the way, all the demos I show are right there for you to run, right?
 So how many people are actually running the notebooks from the lecture notes?
 A few, yeah?
 But let's just say they're right there to run.
 If you just run the Pose notebook in the Pose chapter, then you'll see exactly the demo
 that we're sort of working up towards, right?
 Which is -- we've already got all the basic components now.
 So we -- someone took a mustard bottle.
 We took a moment to scan the mustard bottle so we have a known model.
 Now there's a mustard bottle in the bin with a bunch of cameras looking at it.
 And we're going to use our point cloud processing to find that mustard bottle and then use that
 now, that information of the pose of the object, in order to plan our grasp the same way we
 did last time.
 Okay?
 That's what we're working towards.
 And we talked about -- yeah?
 [ Inaudible Speaker ]
 So you could -- one way to make a model would be to take your object and try to see it from
 lots of different angles and make a point cloud of it to start.
 That's a perfectly reasonable way to do it.
 Oftentimes when you're in the wild, though, then you're never going to see the bottom
 of the mustard bottle, depending on where your cameras are.
 So that would typically take a separate step where you put it in a scanner or something
 like that.
 In fact, that's kind of what we did here.
 The way I made those point clouds was I just put a camera -- a bunch of cameras at it and
 sampled and down sampled and worked from that.
 Yeah?
 [ Inaudible Speaker ]
 The question is, would you improve performance to use the same camera?
 I think that, you know, point clouds are a pretty robust representation.
 And by the time you often -- some of the processing we'll do as we work with them more, you'll
 down sample and the like.
 So you're pretty agnostic to the camera.
 In fact, a lot of people -- you'll hear people say things like, I chose to use depth in this
 project instead of RGB because it's less sensitive to the camera properties.
 So -- and the lighting conditions and things like that.
 Okay.
 So last time we worked through some of the mechanics, and we'll go through extensions
 of that today.
 But we ended up with the iterative closest point algorithm, right?
 So --
 [ Writing on Board ]
 -- talked about point clouds.
 We talked about point set registration.
 First with known correspondences.
 And that one had a beautiful solution, which happened to just require calling SVD.
 It had basically a linear algebra solution.
 And then for unknown correspondences, we so far -- we introduced the ICP algorithm, the
 iterative closest point algorithm.
 And I showed an example that was admittedly a best case for it, right, where the orientation
 wasn't so bad.
 And the iterative closest point algorithm worked by finding correspondences based on
 nearest neighbors.
 Just taking the points in the scene, the points in the model, saying they're corresponding
 if they're the closest one.
 And then assuming that was correct, solving for the pose given the known correspondences,
 and then updating and running until convergence.
 Now, if you play with the notebook in the -- I intentionally made random objects and
 random initial conditions.
 You'll see lots of cases where that also fails, right?
 So when you start with a good initial guess, it very reliably can, in a small number of
 steps, converge.
 It's got a nice finite convergence property, okay?
 But it's also easy to get it confused, where it starts corresponding in wrong ways, and
 it will never get unstuck.
 Okay, so this problem has local minima when you separate out the closest point from the
 pose estimation.
 Okay, but we're going to work to try to do better than that, and also even think about
 some of the other limitations of this today.
 So my goal for today, the main goal for today, is to start working with more real-world point
 clouds.
 I'll just call them messy point clouds.
 And we'll think about -- we'll go from hard correspondences before.
 I'll introduce what I mean by soft correspondences, and talk about a lot of generalizations to
 this basic ICP algorithm, some of which can be extremely effective.
 We'll talk a little bit specifically about dealing with outliers.
 And then I want to make sure we talk a little bit about sort of beyond just correspondence-based
 points.
 So what would you do if you wanted to add constraints to the optimization?
 Or what other sorts of information can you get from knowing that you've got a depth camera
 that isn't available in the simple point set registration objective?
 So that's the main goal.
 Let me just start quickly by telling you a little bit more about how we simulate point
 clouds and simulate cameras in Drake, but in general.
 So this is the same kind of system you've been familiar with, but I put in this RGB
 sensor in the middle here, which is just another block in our block diagram.
 It connects directly to the scene graph, which has all the geometry information, and it outputs
 a color image, a depth image of different-- you can choose different resolutions of the
 depth image.
 It optionally takes a label image and tells you exactly which pixel corresponds with which
 object.
 But that's, of course, a cheat that you wouldn't have in the real world.
 And you can ask for it to output the poses and stuff, too.
 Now, even though that's just a simple system in this picture, underneath there is an entire
 rendering pipeline that's a fairly sophisticated rendering pipeline.
 We have a few different options when you do RGBD sensors in Drake.
 You can use the standard OpenGL-based pipelines.
 Those are fast, and they run at simulation rates.
 Or you can do a remote process call to Blender or some other ray tracing or higher quality
 renderer of your choice if you want to make pictures that are sufficiently rich to maybe
 train a perception system or impress your friends with fancy movies.
 But these are all in the systems framework.
 They're just one more block in our diagram.
 But down in the depths, they're doing a lot of rendering work.
 I also put in an extra piece in this diagram to extract--
 to take the depth image out and project it into the 3D.
 So I guess I didn't highlight this, but this is depth image to point cloud.
 But this thing right here immediately puts out a color image and a depth image.
 Yeah?
 [INAUDIBLE]
 Yeah, that's coming.
 So in practice-- I put that in manually just so you at least once see what the system looks
 like and understand what's happening.
 But in practice, we have this hardware station abstraction.
 And you listed a bunch of objects in the scene.
 You can just add one more thing into your YAML file and say there's a camera.
 You can talk about the properties of that camera right in the YAML file.
 And effectively, you just add a couple more lines to your YAML file.
 And suddenly, you've got a camera in there that will automatically
 add the RGBD sensor system into the inside of your hardware station
 and will make those output ports available in the hardware station
 abstraction.
 The goal of the hardware station abstraction
 is to be whatever the real robot is.
 That's the boundary.
 So we actually don't make point clouds come out of the hardware station
 ever because the robot doesn't going to send you point clouds.
 It's going to send you a depth image.
 So that's the layer of abstraction, the hardware station.
 And so the thing that converts from the depth and color to a point cloud,
 that would be outside the hardware station,
 because you're going to have to do that even if you're on a real robot.
 But in general, one more line.
 It happens.
 It looks like I did more lines.
 That's because I put the camera geometry in the scene too.
 And then I just said there's a camera where the camera geometry is.
 But if you just want to have an invisible camera in the sky,
 you don't need the camera model.
 So then inside that abstraction of the hardware station,
 we have the multi-body plant, the scene graph, the RGBD sensor,
 all on the inside.
 And then if you want to also convert it to point clouds,
 then there's another system that converts it to point clouds outside.
 And then if you want to send those point clouds to MeshCAD,
 there's one more system you can publish it with.
 So what does that give you?
 That gives you something like this.
 Here we go.
 It gives you scenes like this.
 But in MeshCAD, when you publish both the original geometry--
 that's under the Drake thing--
 and the point cloud that gets published, that's this camera.
 As you can see behind my box here.
 Oh, I forgot to put the camera in this one.
 I ran it fresh.
 The new one has the camera in it.
 But this is actually-- even though that looks beautiful from this side,
 that's actually just the point cloud colorized with the RGB values.
 And it immediately shows one of the limitations of using cameras
 is partial views.
 You're only going to see one side of the mustard bottle with one camera.
 But like I said, we talked last time sort of assuming
 we had the luxury of making a very nice model,
 and then the luxury of having a perfect depth camera.
 But real point clouds are actually messy.
 This is just some real data of our messy lab.
 This is what if I were to have ideal depth would look like.
 And this is more like what the real depth looks like.
 And we're going to talk about the specific ways
 that they're messy in a few minutes.
 And I just grabbed another random desktop manipulation.
 One of the other things people say often about the D415 in particular,
 it's funny, all sorts of people have all commented--
 they always use the same word.
 They always say it's kind of lumpy.
 I don't think I've ever used lumpy really in my--
 but everybody chooses that word because it's just kind of lumpy.
 And that's just the limitations of being--
 when you're that close, the accuracy of that sensor
 and somehow the way it's doing its stereo matching
 has that property, which makes it very hard to detect vegetables very
 accurately.
 If your bumps, your lumps are on the same scale
 as the things you're trying to manipulate,
 that's bad news.
 OK, yeah, so I made the partial views.
 So how do you get around partial views?
 There's many ways to do it.
 You could have a mobile manipulator that can sort of look around
 and take multiple views.
 In the dish example that I showed you before,
 we put cameras everywhere.
 It doesn't mitigate completely the partial view problem.
 Still, when you're looking in the sink,
 you're not going to see the bottom of the plate, for instance,
 or the bottom of the mustard bottle.
 But at least I'll get as many views as I possibly can looking in.
 And that's kind of a common thing if you're seeing an instrumented robot
 station.
 You'll expect to see multiple cameras all looking down.
 And if you see that, don't knock the cameras.
 That's just not cool.
 Because then someone has to go back and calibrate everything again.
 So if you're visiting a lab and you see lots of cameras, don't touch.
 OK, even this one has two on the wrist.
 So it tries to see just about everything.
 OK, so let's just think about some of the problems.
 So in what ways are point clouds messy?
 OK, types of messy, I guess I'll write.
 One of them, which I'm trying to show here,
 is that point clouds are not necessarily messy.
 One of them, which I'm trying to show here, is partial views.
 And let's think for a second about what partial views would do.
 So if I had my blue model and my salmon object
 and I was trying to register them together,
 how is ICP going to do with the partial view problem?
 Now, you remember that we specifically
 chose that we were going to write the correspondences last time.
 We said Ci equals j means that scene point i corresponds
 to model j.
 OK, so we went to some lengths to say that for every scene point,
 we have to have a corresponding point in the model,
 but not the other way around.
 We did not say in that representation that every model point had to have
 a corresponding point in the scene.
 This is a major reason why, is that for partial views,
 you can sort of expect in the perfect case,
 where you just didn't see the back half, but you got noise-free points,
 then this is OK.
 This is going to do still fairly well.
 It can still get stuck in local minima and the like,
 but it has a chance of being successful.
 This is an example of a local minima, but it had a chance.
 If I had run it a bunch of times, it would work some of the time.
 Yeah?
 Another problem is just sort of Gaussian noise.
 Let's just say Gaussian noise, or lumps, maybe.
 That's not a technical term.
 That's just me being silly.
 The real sensors really don't have Gaussian error characteristics,
 but people often will use that in their point cloud algorithms.
 It's a little suspicious, probably, because in fact,
 when you're solving the least squares problem, which
 is the known correspondence problem, the least squares problem
 that we wrote down a bunch last time, and we'll write down again in a minute,
 that's actually very robust to Gaussian noise.
 It's going to solve that correspondence.
 It's going to look for the pose which minimizes the least squares objective.
 If you add a little Gaussian noise in, it's
 designed to fight that Gaussian noise.
 Unfortunately, real sensors give lumps more than Gaussian noise.
 The other one that you'll get is outliers.
 And you can get sort of a little bit of outliers,
 or you can get a lot of outliers.
 So one thing you could sort of imagine would be,
 I've looked at my mustard bottle, but I accidentally got a few,
 I don't know, shiny points over to the side, so I got a few pixels.
 If I had my objects, maybe I have my scene points
 that look kind of like this.
 Pretty recognizable, but now I had like two sort of just random outlier scene
 points.
 If I do my existing objective, if I try to minimize x in SE(3),
 the sum over i of some x that I'm looking for, mci minus--
 that was the objective we wrote down last time.
 We can solve nicely if the correspondences are known.
 What happens to my sort of ICP algorithm when I do this,
 when I introduce a few outliers?
 [INAUDIBLE]
 Yeah.
 [INAUDIBLE]
 Yeah.
 The squared error here is going to be large,
 so it's going to actually have a measurable effect
 on the pose you estimate.
 So even though it's like, obviously, I
 would want to try to fit the object over here,
 it's very likely, if we're demanding that all of the scene points
 have a corresponding model point, that because it's
 going to pick some point for this, you're more likely going to end up
 with a fit that looks something like way over here.
 These are going to have a large effect compared to the ones that
 are all sort of close.
 So that's a problem the way we've written it.
 Interestingly, if you want to be robust to outliers,
 one thing you could do, which sort of seems natural,
 you could write your correspondences the other way.
 You could say that every point in my model
 has to correspond to a point in my scene,
 and then these will just get ignored.
 Right, if I said that the other way, if I said,
 every point in my model has to correspond
 to one of the points in my scene, then the fact
 that none of the points in my model correspond to those points is fine.
 But then you're susceptible to partial views.
 So the correspondence of going scene to model is good for partial views.
 The correspondence of going model to scene is good for outliers.
 But unfortunately, we need to really be good at both.
 So one of the goals here is to generalize
 our notion of correspondence a bit so that we
 can try to be robust to both.
 [SIDE CONVERSATION]
 All right, so let's do that.
 The first way we'll do that is with this notion of soft correspondences.
 So let me do it.
 I'm going to work towards soft correspondences,
 but first let me just make a small change to this formulation that
 could open up the possibility of corresponding not all
 to something in one direction.
 So instead of my correspondence vector, let's do a correspondence matrix.
 Say Cij, and it's going to be 0 or 1.
 And I'll say it's 1 if scene point i corresponds to model point j.
 [SIDE CONVERSATION]
 So certainly, this can capture what we've written before.
 If I just fill in the diagonal entries of this,
 I can represent this perfectly with that.
 And I can actually represent either one.
 I could do the model to scene or the scene to model line with that.
 But you can also potentially have model points
 that aren't corresponding to any scene points or scene points
 that don't correspond to any model point.
 The price you pay for that, though, is that now you have to sum--
 you're going to solve a slightly more expensive optimization problem.
 Sum over i and sum over j, Cij, mi--
 which one did I say?
 mj here minus psi.
 That doesn't sound like it looks kind of painless or harmless.
 You just have one more sum there.
 But if you've got 1,000 points or a million points in your point cloud,
 then this can actually be the difference between running at real time
 versus not running at real time, having to do that,
 going to n squared for your big point cloud.
 So this is a more general formulation, but it's more computationally expensive.
 Is that clear?
 I mean, I don't want the algebra to look like a trick.
 But before, I tucked my correspondences in here.
 And now I've done it by just turning on and off the terms in my sum.
 So that's a slightly more general.
 And it allows you to, like I say, handle a more flexible mapping.
 It also leads to the possibility of having softer correspondences.
 This is hard correspondences if it's still 0 or 1.
 But soft correspondences could be if I have c, let's say,
 i, j takes values between 0 and 1, for instance.
 I could say, I correspond to that point a little, a little bit.
 Or I could correspond to many points.
 I mean, even this one could correspond to many points.
 But maybe if you want to correspond a little bit to lots of points,
 that can be a softer version of this correspondence.
 But in that same-- if you're willing to do the double sum,
 then this is a flexible thing.
 And the question becomes, how would you choose c, i, j?
 So before, we chose to say something was corresponding
 if it was based on a nearest neighbor query.
 We need a heuristic now to say-- or some sort of mechanism
 now to pick c, i, j in this more general sense.
 So one of the ideas out there would just be
 to use something like a Gaussian kernel.
 OK.
 I'll say what I mean by that.
 OK.
 And this is the coherent point drift CPD algorithm,
 which is a variation on ICP that does this sort of soft correspondence
 with Gaussian kernels.
 OK, so maybe the way to think about it--
 I've already got a picture started here.
 I have my model points and my scene points.
 OK.
 If I think about--
 you can do it either way around.
 But if I think about putting sort of a Gaussian kernel--
 these are level sets of my two-dimensional Gaussian
 around every point, then I'll basically score the distance.
 But it's weighted, and it'll ramp off on the tail.
 So I'll just compute the distance between all of the points--
 again, an n-squared kind of operation.
 I'll compute the distance to all of them.
 But instead of just using the distance straight up,
 I'm going to weight the distances that are far away from me more
 and have the distances that are close be more in a bell shape,
 in a Gaussian.
 The Gaussian, of course, brings extra probabilistic interpretations
 around, and it keeps the objective looking
 like a quadratic function and stuff.
 So the Gaussian is a natural choice.
 But the essence of the idea is really just taper off,
 make my values close to 0 if the points are far away,
 and closer to whatever the Gaussian--
 when you're close to 0.
 And then you could normalize that so that the sum is 1
 if you want across those points.
 That's just a normalization coefficient
 that we can solve naturally enough.
 Normalization may matter if some points have lots of neighbors
 and other points don't have lots of neighbors.
 So just imagine putting rubber bands between you
 and all of your neighbors, but there's
 some sort of a nonlinear band.
 That's a pretty robust, good way to do a more general form
 of correspondence.
 And you see in all of these papers--
 by the way, you always see the Stanford bunny.
 Somehow the Stanford bunny just won that game.
 And you'll see them all adding things that will, for instance,
 add a lot of outliers, add a lot of partial views.
 This is the CPD paper, coherent point drift paper,
 which shows that this thing can have pretty robust registration
 even with lots of noise and potentially lots of outliers.
 The general word on the street is
 that CPD is a lot more robust than ICP,
 but it's potentially a lot more expensive
 that you get these n squareds that pop in a few times.
 There are algorithms out there that try to do almost CPD,
 but staying in the linear regime.
 And they can be a pretty nice trade-off in between.
 So messy point clouds require, I think,
 a more general thinking about correspondence.
 Yeah?
 [INAUDIBLE]
 Good.
 I should have said that all the way through.
 So this is still an iterative algorithm.
 So on step-- given an initial value of x,
 initial guess, which is kind of what I've illustrated here.
 I've got a guess for where the model is,
 and observations of the scene.
 Given that initial guess, now I can compute the distances
 and score them with a bell curve.
 That allows me to compute these coefficients.
 And then I solve the point registration problem
 that's weighted by this, which is, again,
 an SPD-based operation.
 And then I alternate.
 And so it's going to snap in, and it'll
 have some of the same local minima properties
 that the original ICP does, but it's
 going to be less immediately susceptible
 because it's going to average out the local correspondence.
 Great.
 Thank you for making me say that.
 Yeah?
 [INAUDIBLE]
 Yeah.
 So you have to be careful about your normalization.
 That's correct.
 So he says, maybe you don't want to normalize for outliers.
 So let's just think about that for a second.
 So how does CPD handle outliers?
 By default, it's handling outliers
 by setting a very small weight.
 C should be very close to 0, or 0, effectively,
 for things that are far away.
 So if it was the case that you were corresponding
 to only outliers, I think in that setting,
 then maybe they're not outliers.
 If they're the only points that I'm nearby,
 then I should actually attach myself to them
 to maximize the objective.
 So I think there is a canonical normalization of Cij,
 and they use it in the paper for sure.
 Yeah?
 [INAUDIBLE]
 Beautiful.
 So I was going to make that point next.
 So yeah.
 So what is an outlier in the real world?
 I drew a cartoon of an outlier being like two points.
 But if I have a cluttered scene and a mustard bottle sitting
 in the cluttered scene, I'm going
 to get point cloud returns from all
 of the other objects in the scene, including the desk,
 including everything.
 So actually, it can often be the case
 that 90% of your points are outliers in that sense.
 And now the problem is finding a needle in the haystack.
 So if you start with just an ICP or CPD kind of framework
 in that, you're going to need to have a fairly good initial
 guess.
 Otherwise, you're likely to get your mustard bottle attached
 to the chair or something like this.
 Because of that, although people do do that, and there's cases--
 I'll show you a couple of times where that can be useful.
 Oftentimes now, nowadays, segmentation with deep networks
 is so good that you'll typically do segmentation first
 and then give yourself a small crop nearby
 and try to identify there.
 And then you're in a picture where you have some returns
 maybe in your box, but it's not as much as finding
 the mustard bottle in Rome.
 You'll know why I said that in a second.
 OK?
 Yeah?
 So I mean, partial views would still be--
 so if, let's say, I'm using an RGB neural network-based
 segmentation, they would still be
 able to go from that camera view and say,
 this is the area of interest.
 And then I can map that through the geometry of the camera
 into the 3D and make a box and make the cuts.
 So partial views in that pipeline are fine.
 There was a more classical point cloud-based way
 to do segmentation.
 Those would be maybe potentially more susceptible to segmentation
 to partial views in the segmentation.
 But the neural network ones are pretty darn good.
 So you might have--
 a lot of times, people would just
 find a mustard bottle on a flat table.
 So they'd identify the table, and they'd
 subtract it out, things like that.
 Yeah?
 Yeah.
 There's a lot of different potential ways.
 So again, a deep network--
 so neural networks are going to be
 very good at solving the more global problem.
 So if you really have to look at a big cluttered scene
 and start with an initial guess, then it's
 very hard to do better than a neural network
 or something like that.
 Sometimes-- deep learning can be amazing for even the final step
 two, for the pose estimation step two.
 But oftentimes, using the geometry
 can do better in the local to get
 the accuracy of dialing in your pose very accurately.
 So there was a long time where people
 would do deep learning to get an initial guess,
 geometric perception to fill in the details
 and snap it into place.
 There's leaderboards on the pose estimation.
 And around 2020, they flipped to--
 deep learning and computer vision
 happened much earlier, 2016, let's say.
 But they only started beating the geometric versions
 and the leaderboards around 2020 or so, 2021.
 But now they're just winning.
 Yeah?
 [INAUDIBLE]
 Good.
 So let me repeat it for everybody to hear.
 So I assumed-- all my pictures have been drawn uniform samples
 across the object.
 If I were to shine a camera or do less careful things,
 I might have had a bunch of points in my model over here
 and maybe not as many on this side.
 There's really no reason to expect the scene
 to be distributed as nicely around the boundary
 of the object as the model was, or not even nicely.
 They could be different.
 So I think the soft correspondences also
 address that.
 So you don't have to have--
 it's less requiring you to match exactly one.
 If you were to have Cij being 0.5, 0.5,
 imagine a setting where my scene and my model
 are almost on top of each other.
 Let's say my model points came spaced like this.
 And with perfect alignment, my scene points came like this.
 Model scene, right?
 I could still drive this objective to 0.
 I could correspond to both of them.
 No, it wouldn't be 0, but it would be a minimum.
 Yeah.
 So that's another reason to use the generalized correspondences.
 Yes?
 [INAUDIBLE]
 x is my pose, yeah?
 This x is my rigid transform.
 So when I say SE3, that means it's got to be a valid--
 it's going to be three positions and some valid rotation.
 And in the math here, we're using our spatial algebra
 in that writing.
 But the main idea here of this iterative algorithm
 is that I'm going to deal with outliers and noise
 and other things and partial views.
 But outliers, by setting this to a very small number.
 And it's alternating.
 It's using the previous guess, the distances
 from the previous guess, to set those thresholds.
 And then it's solving this in effectively closed form
 with the singular value decomposition.
 But a generalization of that, which
 has different computational properties,
 but more flexibility, I could just say,
 what if I wanted to use the distance here?
 This is already my quadratic bowl.
 What if I just said things that have a really large distance
 shouldn't cost me more?
 What if instead of just using a quadratic function here,
 which just got worse and worse and worse, what if I said,
 I'm going to obtain error from being far away,
 but then it just flattens out?
 So you can do exactly this without the alternations
 with a small change where you could say,
 I'm going to minimize over--
 I'll write the sum like this.
 That still means my two sums potentially.
 Some more general loss function of--
 it doesn't have to be quadratic.
 It could be quadratic and trying to do some of the same things
 that the Gaussian was doing.
 Yeah, so there's a bunch of squared exponential.
 I mean, that's kind of what a Gaussian is, I guess.
 There's a couple of canonical choices.
 So the quadratic-- if I just use the quadratic,
 you would think of that as a parabola that
 goes up quadratically.
 And therefore, large distance objects, outliers,
 are going to have a very, very large effect on my cost.
 You can do a little bit better.
 If you use a Huber loss, it has at least a linear scaling
 after the initial growth.
 That turns it into a linear scaling.
 But actually, the Gaussian that we're doing here,
 like in CPD, it has an interpretation.
 If you think of it in this way, it's
 sort of the cost of going farther out hails off.
 And now it's a subtle point.
 So the fact that this is flat for large distances,
 it doesn't have to be 0 in this picture.
 It just has to be flat.
 You still want it to cost more to have a point far away
 from you than if you had one that was perfect.
 But it stops affecting my optimization
 because if I've got a flat line over here,
 then small changes in my estimate of the pose
 will not affect the cost I get back
 so that the ones that are in the flat part of the curve
 have no effect on the optimization.
 So the most extreme version of that
 would be a truncated least squares, where you just say,
 if the distance is less than 1, for instance,
 then I'm going to use the quadratic.
 And if it's greater than 1, then it's just 1.
 So that'll reward you for making as many inliers as possible
 because an inlier will always get less cost.
 You want your outliers to cost at least as much
 as the worst inlier.
 But then the outliers don't affect your pose.
 So those are the standard cast of objective choices.
 Now, once we go into that space, you're
 now leaving the world of quadratic programming or SVD.
 And you're going to typically do nonlinear optimization
 to solve for that.
 So originally, we had cost functions.
 I had decision variables like this.
 And cost functions like this, we've
 so far been in the land of these nice convex objective functions
 that have unique minima.
 But this would be a convex optimization.
 These are going to lead to non-convex optimizations
 in general just because it's a richer class.
 So if I have my decision variables x, my costs,
 I could have cost landscapes that are more complicated.
 Probably not negative in this particular problem.
 And I'm going to potentially have a harder time optimizing
 against these functions because they
 could have more local minima.
 So that's the thing to watch out for.
 But it's really empowering to be able to use
 these richer things that deal very naturally without liars.
 The truncated least squares in particular,
 there's ways to address that with a logic where
 you do beautiful quadratic optimization.
 And you can turn these on or off.
 And so there are nice convex optimization approaches
 to solving that one, that hard nonlinearity.
 But in general, you're in the harder problem space.
 Yeah, typically, it's typically a heuristic.
 Some sort of-- I mean, yeah, maybe it
 has to do with the confidence you have in your model
 or the noise characteristics of your sensor
 or something like this.
 There are rubrics, I guess.
 But people normally just say, eh, one.
 And then if it's getting stuck, you change it to 0.5.
 And you hope-- yeah.
 Yeah, that can be a little heuristic.
 OK, but that's an extremely powerful toolbox.
 And once you go there, there's a lot
 of things you can do to make the computations really
 fast, for instance.
 So one of the cool ideas that I like
 is if you're going to be doing lots of distance queries
 from points to your model, then one of the things you can do
 is you could take your model and precompute a sine distance
 function over 3D space.
 How many people know what a sine distance function is?
 Have you seen those before?
 This is the best picture I could find.
 It's from Pete, who's awesome.
 But yeah, so imagine we have our 3D Stanford bunny or something.
 But here's a 2D slice of the Stanford bunny.
 That sounded mean.
 And so in that slice, we're going
 to have a picture that takes negative values,
 but has a negative distance to the object
 when it's in the inside.
 It's 0 on the boundary of the object,
 in all three dimensions, of course.
 And it gets the distance, the actual distance,
 so the closest plane on the boundary everywhere.
 That's a function you can sort of precompute
 once for each model.
 And now, distance queries become just lookups.
 You don't even have to sample your bunny.
 You can just have it work directly
 from the original mesh, for instance.
 And now if I want to know quickly
 what's the distance from this point to there,
 it's just a table lookup.
 In this setting, that just makes things a lot faster
 and very GPU compatible and the like.
 Sine distance functions are important.
 One of the many representations that I mentioned,
 but for this particular optimization,
 they're very effective.
 Yeah?
 [INAUDIBLE]
 That might be how you generate this.
 So the question is, how would you compare this
 to a Euclidean distance?
 The sine distance function is a Euclidean distance
 defined to be what's the minimum Euclidean distance
 from this point.
 The value of the sine distance function
 would be the minimum Euclidean distance
 to any point on the boundary.
 Typically, it's Euclidean.
 And then similarly, it'd be minimum distance here,
 but I'm going to assign this myself, if you will,
 on the inside.
 That's how you would compute it.
 But the point is, if you're going
 to be doing lots of queries all the time,
 don't do that minimum over boundary points every time.
 Precompute it once, and then do the table lookup.
 Yeah?
 [INAUDIBLE]
 So how do you compute that?
 So it turns out that if you represent it even
 at a finite number of points and interpolate,
 that these can be surprisingly good.
 In voxels, yes.
 So a voxel-based representation, if you
 wanted to just use that as your representation
 of the geometry, there's an algorithm called
 marching cubes that will go and look at the voxel-based
 representation and find the boundary to try
 to find the zero level set.
 And you'll see geometry that comes out of this that's
 as good as--
 in fact, this is probably one of those--
 as good as any CAD file, but it's actually
 represented with a fairly coarse voxel grid.
 When I started looking at that, I was like,
 I'm impressed at how coarse your voxel
 can be with the level of resolution
 you can get out of your mesh.
 Nowadays, people will store that in a neural network.
 Deep SDF, in fact, was one of the first to do that.
 So you could just have a neural network function over R3
 that says, what's my sine distance?
 And then you can try to figure it out.
 You just find the zeros of the neural network output
 to reconstruct your object.
 And that turns out to be a very, very powerful representation.
 Yeah?
 [INAUDIBLE]
 Because it allows you to play these games with outliers,
 for instance.
 Yeah?
 [INAUDIBLE]
 They are all trying to be good for outliers in the sense
 that they're flattening out over here.
 They will have different--
 this might be a slightly harder--
 if you just handed this to a general nonlinear optimizer,
 that might be a harder optimization landscape.
 But it would be very specific about outliers.
 Cool.
 Yes?
 [INAUDIBLE]
 Good.
 So how would you do optimization on this?
 So there's a toolbox of nonlinear optimizers
 that people will use.
 A natural choice would be--
 I'm going to pick a point here and just start going down
 and doing gradient descent.
 So oftentimes, when we get into these non-convex optimizations,
 we'll also have constraints.
 If you're doing constrained optimization,
 then people will do, for instance,
 second-order methods that can handle constraints more
 naturally.
 Or you have to do projected gradient descent.
 We're going to evolve those tools when we need them.
 So I think gradient descent is a perfectly reasonable model.
 And that's why it could potentially
 get stuck in local minima.
 But again, you can make local quadratic approximations
 and try to do faster optimization that way
 or handle constraints more naturally.
 OK.
 So that was like a--
 actually, in the notes, I went through many
 of the variations of ICP.
 And there's some that are just super clever.
 They're really, really clever in how
 you can deal with outliers, how you can use--
 remember, last time we talked about the--
 you can use the pairwise distance
 to do scale estimation because it's
 invariant to translation and rotation.
 So you can use those same sort of invariant features
 to try to find correspondences.
 There's so many clever tricks.
 You can use color values to try to--
 or features that somehow try to find correspondences.
 There's lots and lots of tricks.
 And I tried to give you a summary of them
 sort of in the notes.
 But this is the main idea I wanted to communicate here.
 Because correspondences aren't everything.
 And I want to make some time to talk about,
 what are the limitations of this?
 And what have we not done now?
 And why do we need something a little bit more
 than correspondences?
 OK.
 And I guarantee, if you put a mustard bottle or a mug
 or something on the table, and you
 get your nice, fancy RealSense camera out,
 and you do your ICP in the real world,
 you're going to hit this thing, which is just--
 everybody hits it.
 It's really annoying.
 OK.
 Let me do it maybe with a mug, just
 because I can't draw mustard bottles very well.
 OK.
 So let's say I've got a table here in 2D.
 OK.
 And I've got my mug sitting on the table.
 And ICP is going to come back.
 OK.
 And it's going to say, I don't know,
 here's your estimate of the mug.
 And it minimizes the least squares sense.
 OK.
 And you're going to be like, that's not my estimate of mug.
 It's in the table.
 I know the mug's not in the table.
 Right?
 And then you'll have another sample return, OK,
 where it's going to say, here's my estimate of the mug.
 And you'll be like, I know the mug is not floating in space.
 Right?
 And so there's things that you know about the optimization
 problem that you haven't told that ICP,
 the sort of correspondence-only objective,
 is not rich enough to express.
 OK.
 So correspondences aren't everything.
 There's other information, like non-penetration
 as a constraint.
 So how would you think about that?
 What's the constraint that you would write?
 Non-penetration just means two bodies should obviously
 not be penetrating.
 They should not have a negative sign distance.
 This one, what kind of a constraint
 would you write to say things are not floating in space?
 Contact force.
 Yeah.
 More generally, this should be like a free body diagram.
 And it should be a static equilibrium.
 If you know something about equilibrium,
 if you know something about even the basic physics,
 and you assume the scene is static,
 then you should just say forces should balance.
 And if there's not a force that makes that thing at rest,
 then it's probably not a valid solution.
 There's one other really good one, OK,
 which I want to talk through.
 And I mentioned it sort of before.
 But if my camera is over here, and it's shooting--
 somehow its field of view is here, and my box is here,
 then the fact that I get point returns here, here, and here,
 not only does that tell me I've got some points that I
 should try to match here.
 But there's actually a whole bunch more information.
 The fact that I got those points from this camera,
 it also tells me that there's no objects there.
 This is like the free space constraints.
 [WRITING]
 So those are sort of three examples of extra things
 beyond what we've expressed in the point correspondence
 problem so far.
 Yeah?
 [INAUDIBLE]
 It's a really, really good question, OK?
 So how would we write a non-penetration constraint?
 So first of all, let's assume that the table is fixed.
 So we just want to say that there's some constraint
 on the pose such that no point on the mug
 can possibly be in the table.
 So for instance, I could have a constraint somehow saying
 x of the object has to be greater than or equal to 0.
 Now think about-- that's just a hopelessly generic way
 to write a constraint.
 But it depends on the pose of the mug.
 How would I evaluate this constraint?
 This constraint could be the distance of the closest point
 on the mug to the table.
 Let me even say signed distance.
 If my signed distance between the points
 on the mug and the table are all greater than or equal to 0,
 then I've satisfied that non-penetration constraint.
 [INAUDIBLE]
 Yes, that's true.
 So what she said is that in order to write this,
 I have to have encoded in the program
 in that f is the position of the table.
 If you're estimating multiple objects simultaneously,
 then you might be writing this as a function of x of object 1,
 x of object 2.
 More generally, you could think of this
 as writing a function--
 sorry to be jumping around on the board here--
 a function of the configuration vector q,
 which defines all of the positions of my robot
 and bodies in the world.
 We actually have-- so implementing that constraint
 and implementing that constraint in a way that it gives
 the best gradients possible, because that's potentially
 a non-smooth function.
 If I change q a little bit, the point that is the closest
 could change discontinuously.
 So we actually-- there's a lot of tools in Drake,
 for instance.
 This would be called a minimum distance constraint.
 Minimum distance.
 Points.
 And you can just say, make a mathematical program.
 Add my quadratic objective on the points.
 Now add a minimum distance constraint,
 saying that the minimum distance between these two bodies
 has to be greater than or equal to 0.
 And behind the scenes is some computational geometry
 that is computing those, taking those two bodies,
 given the current q, and estimating that minimum
 distance.
 Yeah.
 The question is, doesn't this-- this
 is a highly nonlinear function, potentially,
 and non-smooth function.
 Doesn't that make the solver have a hard time
 confining an optimal solution?
 Yes, it does.
 This is not magical.
 It makes the optimization problem much harder.
 It will still, like ICP, have the property
 that if you have a pretty good initial guess,
 it can be surprisingly effective.
 In particular, in tracking applications,
 where you find an initial pose and then track objects
 as they move, and you only have to adjust--
 as long as you're staying on track,
 you always have a pretty good initial guess.
 These things can be extremely effective.
 The solvers are very, very good.
 They're better than you could hope for them to be,
 but these problems are very hard in general.
 The static equilibrium constraint
 can be written similarly, but it requires also
 knowledge of mass.
 But we can write similar, and there's also
 a static equilibrium constraint available in Drake.
 Do you have a question?
 [INAUDIBLE]
 Good question.
 So static equilibrium sounds like a heavy hammer,
 if I just want to say that it's on the table.
 So in the simple setting of the mug is on the table,
 then absolutely, you could just say that some of the points
 are 0.
 But I think you quickly find yourself
 in a more complicated situations, where it's not just
 like I'm stacking mugs, but just I think,
 what if the table's planted, or there's
 situations where writing the heuristics solution
 becomes almost harder than just writing the governing equations
 and having physics tell you.
 There's some threshold.
 I think for flat table, I think you're absolutely right.
 You could just say, set it on the table,
 have one of the distances be equal to 0.
 That would be good.
 Yes?
 [INAUDIBLE]
 Yeah.
 [INAUDIBLE]
 Yeah, so he asks, what about using something like diffusion
 to converge on the constraint manifold?
 I mean, almost certainly, yes.
 I think diffusion is very good at learning manifolds.
 And there's a manifold of possible collision surfaces.
 The question would be the cost of training that model.
 If it's too environment specific,
 it might be not worth the power of it.
 [INAUDIBLE]
 I haven't seen that in particular, but probably.
 Probably, yeah.
 I mean, it'd be a good project, for instance,
 if you wanted to try that.
 OK, so yeah, static equilibrium, we're
 going to use it more later.
 It'll be, for instance, one of the ways that we
 find initial conditions of a simulator,
 would be to try to find things that are in static equilibrium
 with penetration.
 So we'll go back through these a bit later.
 But effectively, these are nonlinear, non-convex
 constraints that can be added to the problem.
 They give you a richer specification than ICP,
 but they come up with much harder optimization problems.
 OK, the free space constraint is actually my favorite.
 Like, I just think it's so easy to underestimate
 how important that one is.
 So how would we write a free space constraint in, let's say,
 to hand to an optimizer?
 How could we write a function that says,
 no other objects are in that space?
 Yeah.
 You could do voxels.
 So the proposal is voxels.
 You could say, there's a lot of voxels maybe in my camera frame
 and those should not be in.
 That could potentially work.
 The voxels, you would need to do something
 to try to smooth out that objective.
 You don't want to have to check all the voxels independently
 as independent constraints.
 Yeah.
 [INAUDIBLE]
 That's exactly-- that's my favorite solution.
 So did you hear what he says?
 He says, you can actually turn that
 into a non-penetration constraint problem.
 If you make a fictitious object, which
 is the geometry is defined by the area between your camera
 and all your returns, you make this object here,
 then the same sort of non-penetration constraints,
 saying this object should not be in penetration
 with this fictitious object, is actually a really nice way
 to write a free space constraint.
 It's still an ugly object, a mathematical object,
 but it's one that people use at real time rates
 to do tracking and the like.
 There's a version, the paper that I like,
 that I first saw this is called Dart.
 In robotics, there's like 16 things called Dart.
 This is one of them.
 Dart, it's dynamic articulated tracking.
 Oh, maybe that's just articulated.
 Maybe it's just dynamic articulated tracking
 by Tanner Schmidt et al.
 I think it's just dynamic articulated tracking.
 So Tanner did these free computations of the SDF,
 made a very fast implementation, and was
 able to track objects that were having non-penetration
 constraints and free space constraints and the like all
 on the fly, solving these nonlinear optimization
 problems very fast.
 There's other subtleties about this point correspondence
 that are sort of limitations, or just you
 should watch for them.
 So one of the examples I like to think about
 is imagine you have a thin book on a flat table.
 Or maybe a better example.
 Let's say I'm looking at a door, and what I care about
 is opening the door handle, something like this.
 I'm going to get a bunch of returns, points on the door.
 And getting those points a little bit wrong,
 the door could shift up or left or right, that's fine.
 But the few points on the door handle
 matter so much more than all of those points
 you're going to get on the door.
 If I've got a thin book on a table,
 and I'm getting returns from the top of the book
 and the returns from the table, the thing
 that's going to determine where the book on the table
 is is probably the very small number of returns
 on the boundary that should have really a lot more importance
 relatively than the massive number of returns
 I'll get on the table in the book.
 I think there is something fundamentally uninformed
 about the ICP objectives, and that is a limitation.
 And I don't have a magic solution to get around that.
 I just want you to know that I feel that it's a limitation.
 It doesn't have a notion.
 There's not a canonical notion of the important points.
 All points are treated equally in this.
 It's very democratic, but it's not always
 what you want for your robot.
 But in that space, it's really, really a very powerful tool.
 So let me show you a couple examples of how well--
 how it can be used very effectively.
 Well, first of all, this is a simple example,
 which is in the notes of that non-penetration constraint
 in action.
 So let's say I have the model here,
 and I have the returns coming from the red, which
 because of noise somehow were through the wall.
 I put this as like a box in the corner.
 So the green is supposed to be the area
 you're not supposed to go.
 And you know that your box should
 be in the positive orthant here.
 But I'm getting returns that are negative.
 So solving that non-penetration constraint,
 which is a handful of lines of code and mathematical program,
 can find the best solution, which
 is minimizing those distances that
 is outside the constraint.
 And maybe even before I finish, let
 me show you a couple more of those examples.
 So the way you do that in mathematical program,
 just the way we added quadratic costs, for instance,
 in the QP, you can add generic costs, which are just
 defined with a Python function.
 And Drake will try to take gradients
 through those functions.
 Every once in a while, he'll type something
 that we can't take a gradient through.
 But most of the time, it just works.
 That's how you would add these richer objectives.
 And in that example right there, what I did
 is I took this original objective, added those costs.
 But it turns out that that squared distance function--
 so there's also constraints saying that those positions
 have to all be outside--
 in the positive orthant.
 So that's the basic mechanics of this problem,
 is just add constraints saying that in my reconstructed thing,
 all of the points need to be positive x and positive y.
 And those you just add as costs and add
 as generic costs and constraints.
 And the implementation of this squared distance function
 and the implementation of this position in world
 are potentially these nonlinear functions.
 The position model in world is taking--
 in this case, the decision variable was just theta.
 I didn't even parameterize the rotation matrix.
 I just parameterized theta, since I'm already
 doing nonlinear optimization.
 And I computed the position of the model in the world
 as a function of theta using our spatial algebra.
 The squared distance, then, is this position
 of the model in world, turned into an error function
 and squared.
 But I'm writing basically natural Python code.
 And when the optimizer tries to solve it,
 what it will do is it'll evaluate these functions
 on the decision variables.
 And it'll take the gradients of those functions
 in order to try to walk down the landscape.
 That is the full program that made that box come out
 of the corner, but otherwise minimize the ICP objective.
 We'll give you a lot more experience
 with those kind of things when you need them.
 OK, so here's a couple examples of, I think,
 ICP, even though it's limited, there's
 some ways that are, I think, very effective in the wild
 today.
 And this one's called label fusion.
 Let me just pause it for a second.
 So when everybody started trying to train deep networks
 to do pose estimation, one of the challenges
 was to have ground truth labels.
 There's only a handful of ways that people do that now.
 One of them is actually in simulation.
 You just put ground truth.
 You generate a bunch of synthetic images.
 You have ground truth poses.
 You have pairs that you can train a supervised learning
 system on image and pose, image and pose, image and pose.
 But it's much better to do that on real world data.
 So one of the early pipelines for doing that on real world
 data used ICP.
 Now, ICP isn't strong enough to solve the problem.
 Otherwise, we wouldn't have had to train a deep network.
 But with a simple GUI, so this project, basically,
 you would take a bunch of pictures of the scene.
 You'd do some dense reconstruction
 to try to make them into one point cloud.
 And then you'd offer it up to a human
 who would just click three points on the scene point
 cloud and three points on the model.
 And they're just super fast, like three clicks.
 And that was just enough to have an initial guess
 that's enough, typically, for ICP
 to do the rest of the work.
 And the cool thing is, since you took a bunch of camera images
 in order to get a nice view or whatever,
 once you have that clicked once, you
 can actually go back to all of those camera images
 and label them with the ground truth label,
 knowing the geometry of the camera and everything.
 You can say, in all of those 100 images or something,
 I know the pose of the object relative to the camera.
 You generate a lot of data very fast.
 And that works very well.
 That was, I think, a leading pipeline for a while,
 or things like that were a leading pipeline.
 I would still do this today if I was
 trying to make a real-world data set myself
 for deep pose estimation.
 Now you can just go through all of your data
 and all these different images where you've just
 identified it once as a ground truth label in the messy scene.
 [AUDIO OUT]
 OK, but there's another--
 this is why I made the joke about mustard and Rome before.
 There's other places where you'll see, basically,
 this ICP point correspondence solved, sometimes
 at massive scales.
 And they're still used very much today.
 Like everybody who's doing NERF is probably doing this first,
 for instance.
 So this is ColMap, which is one of the most popular ones, which
 is one of the first large-scale structure from motion.
 It's almost an analogy.
 There's differences in that problem a little bit,
 which I can talk to.
 But this was just going online.
 The Rome data set is going online
 and a bunch of pictures of people
 taking pictures around Rome.
 And the problem was to go back and figure out
 where their cameras were and merge
 their individual cameras into a coherent 3D model of Rome.
 And it's shockingly good.
 It's crazy how good it is.
 You don't have to send a robot out there.
 Just go on Flickr.
 Incredibly good.
 OK, so the way ColMap works is there's details.
 There's lots of details.
 And I haven't covered structure from motion properly.
 But I do think that the background we have now
 from ICP and the like gives you what
 you need to read the ColMap paper properly.
 So you'll see, first step, figure out correspondences.
 There's a lot of work in ColMap to do it at very large scales.
 You have many, many, many images.
 And you want to first figure out even what images
 might have correspondences.
 So there's a lot of efficiency optimizations
 that make this incredibly good.
 But they use features.
 So they're not just using every point cloud.
 They're going to-- they don't have a depth camera.
 Random people putting images on Flickr
 didn't take depth images.
 So in the structure from motion problem,
 you had to go straight from raw images.
 And one of the ways you do that is you just
 use these generic features.
 SIFT features are the most common ones.
 You don't have to know that as a detail,
 but that's a name you'll see often.
 There's standard algorithms that look for features in the image
 and mark them as an important point in the image.
 They have the vector of features.
 And you can look for similar features in different images,
 decide that they correspond.
 And you start these approximate correspondence algorithms.
 And then in the heart of this is the bundle adjustment,
 which is almost point set registration problem.
 And in fact, it looks almost identical to what we just said.
 One of the key differences is that this pi here,
 it looks almost exactly like the loss function I wrote.
 But this pi here is going--
 projecting points in 2D through the camera
 in an unknown pose of the camera.
 And instead of wrapping the object around or the entire
 scene around, they're actually moving the camera around.
 And that's these-- unfortunately,
 their x is their data, and my x is my transform.
 But that's a point.
 But almost identical objective function.
 They're solving very efficiently.
 They're not just handing that whole thing and going.
 There's a lot of algorithms that make that more efficient.
 But the basis is exactly what we've been talking about here.
 And when you go to build a neural radiance field
 or do Gaussian splatting or whatever the newest 3D
 reconstruction from deep learning community is,
 you'll see that if you're bringing
 raw images or your raw video or something like this,
 the first step still today is to use
 Colmap to figure out where the heck your camera was.
 And if you don't do that, you tend to not get scale
 information.
 So NERF by itself, typically, you
 will start with using these very geometric perception
 algorithms to just understand how
 to align all those images into one neural radiance field.
 So I think one of the more boutique lectures
 as we get to it in the end, and you'll
 have a little bit of choose your own adventure,
 I think it'd be fun to have an entire lecture about some
 of the dense reconstructions and the newer
 neural descriptive stuff.
 But we'll see if you pick that later in the term.
 Cool.
 That's it.
 I'll see you next time.
